great funnel up through here yeah looks
great the Millers are setting a trap
around the mouth of a deep cave to help
them tune into the most sharp eared of
nocturnal predators bats as soon as
they're airborne each species of that
emits a unique high-frequency call and
uses the returning echo to navigate
through the darkness the strings of the
harp trap confuse even the most acute
bats owners the bats fall unharmed into
the cradle meanwhile the powerful ana
bat system converts the bats ultrasonic
calls into sounds they can hear and see
as distinctive visual patterns on the
computer screen mr. ein Berliner it now
I've got a completely different tonight
they detect a new sound scribble these
vocal signatures are unique to each bat
species so the Millers just have to look
in the cradle to match the new voice to
the face
look at the face on that there's another
one and earth several right this is
great this is one of our unknown using
these techniques the Millers have
completely reassessed the numbers and
habits of many bat species in the forest
there is now hard evidence about small
insectivorous bats which because of
their accurate sona have evaded capture
until now 21 80 cheese sabores is
virtually they don't even know where
these things roost not real happy in
here it's a male yeah big ears wonder if
he's a Gleaner now look at the way he
can turn them back powerful jaws must
keep my finger here ow powerful teeth
and jaws are necessary to crunch hard
bodied insects but the bats must find
them first they changed the pulse rate
and frequency of their search poles as
they locate and close in on fri so it's
vital the millers get a full range of
calls for each fat before they release
it they can now identify sixty-five
percent of insectivorous bats in this
forest by sound alone
from here they are fine-tuning or even
rewriting bad biology they've discovered
that the Bowery sore van Gelder's bad
not only take spray on the wing but it's
refined turner can even help it picture
stationary insects